---
layout: post
title:  "Replacing My Catalytic Converter - Part 2"
date:   2016-06-02 22:00:00 -0800
comments: true
tags: 
---

    
    
Notes:
- According to the obd-codes site, it is possible that this code could be generated by "A damaged or failed oxygen sensor (HO2S)"

I recently needed to get the front end of my Trans Am up onto jack stands in order to replace my catalytic converter. It's not entirely obvious where to place the floor jack and the stands, so I thought I'd share a post and video on my experience.








I watched this video on cleaning the sensor:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EtK08cyW05w

    * He uses break cleaner, sand paper, and compressed air
    
    
## TODO

    
## The O2 Sensors

## The Studs

  * I called O'Reilly Auto Parts to ask about replacement studs and nuts, they said they don't carry studs and nuts, but to try calling Higgens Muffler.
  * Higgens Muffler told me they don't sell parts, they only do service. But they suggested trying Santa Barbara Fasteners.
  * I called Santa Barbara Fasteners, they said they could match the studs if I brought them in. I brought them in, but they didn't have them, they told me they don't do much in automotive. They recommended calling the dealer.
  * I read in a forum thread (though I'm not sure if it was an LS1 car) a user claiming that the dealer wanted $120 for replacement studs and nuts.
        
Questions:




    
## Reseting the Emissions Tests

Drive cycle:
http://www.obdii.com/drivecycle.html
    
## Script

Hey, guys. I wanted to start by showing you what all the parts look like after they've been removed, so you can get a better picture of what I'm working on.

I've got a 2002 Pontiac Trans Am. It has the LS1 engine in it, it's a big 5.7L V8. So my car is a 4th generation f-body, which means it's very similar to any Trans Am or V8 Camaro from around 1998 - 2002. 

This is the stock catalytic converter from my car. This end goes up along side the engine and connects to the exhaust header, and then the other end is connected to the exhaust pipe heading towards the back of the car. 

This project is conceptually very simple. All I had to do was remove the O2 sensors, and remove the nuts holding this converter in, 3 on the engine side and 2 on the exhaust side. Then just install a replacement converter. In reality, I spent a few hours under the car, just because it can be tricky to get a good angle on these nuts, and they're tough to break because of all of the rust.


